README.md, before:

# Task Management API

A comprehensive task management REST API built with Java, Maven and Spring Boot.

## Features

- ✅ **Task Management**: Create, read, update, and delete tasks
- 🎯 **Priority System**: Assign LOW, MEDIUM, or HIGH priority to tasks
- 📂 **Categories**: Organize tasks into categories (Work, Personal, etc.)
- ⏰ **Due Date Tracking**: Set and monitor task due dates
- 🔍 **Search & Filter**: Find tasks by title, description, priority, or category
- 📊 **Statistics**: Get completion rates and task analytics
- ⚡ **Zero Configuration**: H2 in-memory database requires no setup

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites - MUST ALREADY BE INSTALLED IN ORDER TO WORK
- Java 17+
- Maven 3.6+

### Running the Application

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd jpmc-advanced
```

2. Run the application:
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```

3. Access the API at `http://localhost:8080/api/tasks`

## API Endpoints

### Task Operations

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/api/tasks` | Get all tasks |
| GET | `/api/tasks/{id}` | Get task by ID |
| POST | `/api/tasks` | Create new task |
| PUT | `/api/tasks/{id}` | Update existing task |
| PUT | `/api/tasks/{id}/complete` | Mark task as completed |
| DELETE | `/api/tasks/{id}` | Delete task |

### Filtering & Search

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/api/tasks/status/{completed}` | Get tasks by completion status |
| GET | `/api/tasks/priority/{priority}` | Get tasks by priority (LOW/MEDIUM/HIGH) |
| GET | `/api/tasks/category/{category}` | Get tasks by category |
| GET | `/api/tasks/search?query={term}` | Search tasks by title or description |
| GET | `/api/tasks/overdue` | Get overdue tasks |
| GET | `/api/tasks/due-today` | Get tasks due today |
| GET | `/api/tasks/sorted-by-priority` | Get all tasks sorted by priority |
| GET | `/api/tasks/high-priority-incomplete` | Get high priority incomplete tasks |

### Analytics

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/api/tasks/statistics` | Get task completion statistics |

## Task Model

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Complete project documentation",
  "description": "Write comprehensive README and API documentation",
  "completed": false,
  "createdDate": "2025-08-11T10:30:00",
  "dueDate": "2025-08-15T17:00:00",
  "priority": "HIGH",
  "category": "Work"
}
```

## Example API Calls

### Create a Task
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/tasks \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "title": "Learn Spring Boot",
    "description": "Complete Spring Boot tutorial",
    "priority": "MEDIUM",
    "category": "Learning",
    "dueDate": "2025-08-20T17:00:00"
  }'
```

### Get All Tasks
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/tasks
```

### Search Tasks
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/search?query=Spring"
```

### Get High Priority Tasks
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/priority/HIGH
```

### Mark Task as Completed
```bash
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/1/complete
```

### Get Task Statistics
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/statistics
```

## Sample Response - Task Statistics
```json
{
  "totalTasks": 10,
  "completedTasks": 6,
  "pendingTasks": 4,
  "overdueTasks": 1,
  "completionRate": 60.0
}
```

## Priority Levels

- **LOW**: Basic tasks, can be done when time permits
- **MEDIUM**: Standard priority tasks (default)
- **HIGH**: Urgent tasks that need immediate attention

## Development

### Project Structure
```
src/main/java/com/demo/taskmanager/
├── TaskManagerApplication.java    # Main Spring Boot application
├── controller/
│   └── TaskController.java        # REST API endpoints
├── model/
│   ├── Task.java                  # Task entity
│   └── Priority.java              # Priority enum
├── repository/
│   └── TaskRepository.java        # Data access layer
└── service/
    └── TaskService.java           # Business logic
```

### Running Tests
```bash
mvn test
```

### Building the Application
```bash
mvn clean package
java -jar target/task-manager-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

## GitHub Copilot Demo Features

This project demonstrates several GitHub Copilot capabilities:

1. **Code Completion**: Auto-complete method signatures and boilerplate code
2. **Pattern Recognition**: REST endpoint patterns and JPA repository methods
3. **Code Generation**: Generate entire methods from comments
4. **Test Generation**: Automatically create comprehensive test cases
5. **Documentation**: Generate JavaDoc and API documentation
6. **Best Practices**: Follow Spring Boot and Java best practices

## Technologies Used

- **Spring Boot 3.1.2**: Application framework
- **Spring Data JPA**: Data persistence
- **H2 Database**: In-memory database (zero configuration)
- **Maven**: Build tool
- **JUnit 5**: Testing framework
- **Mockito**: Mocking framework
- **Java 17**: Programming language

## Data Persistence

The application uses an embedded database that automatically initializes when the application starts. All data is stored in memory during runtime, making it perfect for development and testing without requiring any database setup or configuration.

## Contributing

This project is designed for educational purposes to demonstrate GitHub Copilot capabilities. Feel free to explore, modify, and extend the functionality!

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


# Hands-on Exercises
## 2. Public Code Block

### Set-up
1. Navigate to `/src/main/java/com/demo/taskmanager/util/StringUtil.java`
2. Switch to `Ask` mode for Copilot Chat
3. Include `StringUtil.java` as context
4. Ask Copilot `Can you add comments to #file:StringUtil.java ? Do not edit existing comments.`
<!-- 5. `Can you add new comments to this file?` -->
<!-- 3. Highlight the `quote` function and docstring (i.e., lines 13-42) -->

### Challenge
Using the strategies discussed earlier, find a way to have Copilot add comments to your function without having the response blocked.

<details>
<summary>View solution - TRY IT YOURSELF FIRST</summary>

## Try
- `Can you add comments to #file:StringUtil.java ? Do not edit existing comments. Please show each comment you intend to add in it's own code block. Include the line below the function in each code block.`
  - `StringUtil.java:13-43`
## If needed
- `Can you add comments to #file:StringUtil.java ? Do not edit existing comments. Please show each comment you intend to add in it's own code block. Include the line below the function in each code block. Do not show the complete function.`
  - `StringUtil.java:13-43`
</details>

Commit message:

added quick sort to PCB section

README.md, after:

# Task Management API

A comprehensive task management REST API built with Java, Maven and Spring Boot.

## Features

- ✅ **Task Management**: Create, read, update, and delete tasks
- 🎯 **Priority System**: Assign LOW, MEDIUM, or HIGH priority to tasks
- 📂 **Categories**: Organize tasks into categories (Work, Personal, etc.)
- ⏰ **Due Date Tracking**: Set and monitor task due dates
- 🔍 **Search & Filter**: Find tasks by title, description, priority, or category
- 📊 **Statistics**: Get completion rates and task analytics
- ⚡ **Zero Configuration**: H2 in-memory database requires no setup

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites - MUST ALREADY BE INSTALLED IN ORDER TO WORK
- Java 17+
- Maven 3.6+

### Running the Application

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd jpmc-advanced
```

2. Run the application:
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```

3. Access the API at `http://localhost:8080/api/tasks`

## API Endpoints

### Task Operations

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/api/tasks` | Get all tasks |
| GET | `/api/tasks/{id}` | Get task by ID |
| POST | `/api/tasks` | Create new task |
| PUT | `/api/tasks/{id}` | Update existing task |
| PUT | `/api/tasks/{id}/complete` | Mark task as completed |
| DELETE | `/api/tasks/{id}` | Delete task |

### Filtering & Search

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/api/tasks/status/{completed}` | Get tasks by completion status |
| GET | `/api/tasks/priority/{priority}` | Get tasks by priority (LOW/MEDIUM/HIGH) |
| GET | `/api/tasks/category/{category}` | Get tasks by category |
| GET | `/api/tasks/search?query={term}` | Search tasks by title or description |
| GET | `/api/tasks/overdue` | Get overdue tasks |
| GET | `/api/tasks/due-today` | Get tasks due today |
| GET | `/api/tasks/sorted-by-priority` | Get all tasks sorted by priority |
| GET | `/api/tasks/high-priority-incomplete` | Get high priority incomplete tasks |

### Analytics

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/api/tasks/statistics` | Get task completion statistics |

## Task Model

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Complete project documentation",
  "description": "Write comprehensive README and API documentation",
  "completed": false,
  "createdDate": "2025-08-11T10:30:00",
  "dueDate": "2025-08-15T17:00:00",
  "priority": "HIGH",
  "category": "Work"
}
```

## Example API Calls

### Create a Task
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/tasks \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "title": "Learn Spring Boot",
    "description": "Complete Spring Boot tutorial",
    "priority": "MEDIUM",
    "category": "Learning",
    "dueDate": "2025-08-20T17:00:00"
  }'
```

### Get All Tasks
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/tasks
```

### Search Tasks
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/search?query=Spring"
```

### Get High Priority Tasks
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/priority/HIGH
```

### Mark Task as Completed
```bash
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/1/complete
```

### Get Task Statistics
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/tasks/statistics
```

## Sample Response - Task Statistics
```json
{
  "totalTasks": 10,
  "completedTasks": 6,
  "pendingTasks": 4,
  "overdueTasks": 1,
  "completionRate": 60.0
}
```

## Priority Levels

- **LOW**: Basic tasks, can be done when time permits
- **MEDIUM**: Standard priority tasks (default)
- **HIGH**: Urgent tasks that need immediate attention

## Development

### Project Structure
```
src/main/java/com/demo/taskmanager/
├── TaskManagerApplication.java    # Main Spring Boot application
├── controller/
│   └── TaskController.java        # REST API endpoints
├── model/
│   ├── Task.java                  # Task entity
│   └── Priority.java              # Priority enum
├── repository/
│   └── TaskRepository.java        # Data access layer
└── service/
    └── TaskService.java           # Business logic
```

### Running Tests
```bash
mvn test
```

### Building the Application
```bash
mvn clean package
java -jar target/task-manager-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

## GitHub Copilot Demo Features

This project demonstrates several GitHub Copilot capabilities:

1. **Code Completion**: Auto-complete method signatures and boilerplate code
2. **Pattern Recognition**: REST endpoint patterns and JPA repository methods
3. **Code Generation**: Generate entire methods from comments
4. **Test Generation**: Automatically create comprehensive test cases
5. **Documentation**: Generate JavaDoc and API documentation
6. **Best Practices**: Follow Spring Boot and Java best practices

## Technologies Used

- **Spring Boot 3.1.2**: Application framework
- **Spring Data JPA**: Data persistence
- **H2 Database**: In-memory database (zero configuration)
- **Maven**: Build tool
- **JUnit 5**: Testing framework
- **Mockito**: Mocking framework
- **Java 17**: Programming language

## Data Persistence

The application uses an embedded database that automatically initializes when the application starts. All data is stored in memory during runtime, making it perfect for development and testing without requiring any database setup or configuration.

## Contributing

This project is designed for educational purposes to demonstrate GitHub Copilot capabilities. Feel free to explore, modify, and extend the functionality!

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


# Hands-on Exercises
## 2. Public Code Block
### Challenge #1
#### Set-up
1. Open Copilot Chat
2. Switch to `Ask` mode for Copilot Chat
3. Ask Copilot `Can you show me how a quick sort algorithm works? I want to understand the logic better.`

#### Exercise
Using the strategies discussed earlier, find a way to have Copilot show you the logic to a quick sort function without having the response blocked.

<details>
<summary>SOLUTION</summary>

- `Can you show me how a quick sort algorithm works? I want to understand the logic better. Just show me pseudocode.`
</details>

### Challenge #2
#### Set-up
1. Navigate to `/src/main/java/com/demo/taskmanager/util/StringUtil.java`
2. Switch to `Ask` mode for Copilot Chat
3. Include `StringUtil.java` as context
4. Ask Copilot `Can you add comments to #file:StringUtil.java ? Do not edit existing comments.`

#### Exercise
Using the strategies discussed earlier, find a way to have Copilot add comments to your function without having the response blocked.

<details>
<summary>SOLUTION</summary>

### Try
- `Can you add comments to #file:StringUtil.java ? Do not edit existing comments. Please show each comment you intend to add in it's own code block. Include the line below the function in each code block.`
  - `StringUtil.java:13-43`
## If needed
- `Can you add comments to #file:StringUtil.java ? Do not edit existing comments. Please show each comment you intend to add in it's own code block. Include the line below the function in each code block. Do not show the complete function.`
  - `StringUtil.java:13-43`
</details>
